>> Scott Moss: So for every single
resource that we want to expose through
our API, in this case, we have a user,
a list, an item, we need to
create a schema and a model for.
But in a REST API,
you might have resources that are private
that aren't exposed to the REST API.
So that means you might have database
models that don't have resources attached
to the routes.
Like you have some internal private
analytics thing that you're tracking or
something completely different that you
don't wanna expose to the REST API.
That doesn't mean you have
to make a resource for it.
You don't have to.
You can do whatever you want.
So just cuz you have routes doesn't
mean you have models to go with them.
They don't always go hand in hand.
But according to REST,
the resources line up to something that
you're trying to do in the database.
Should they be called the same?
Maybe you should call them
the same to save people's sanity,
but they don't have to be.
You can do whatever you want.
They could be virtual.
They could be something that calls
something else, but on the route,
they're called a user.
But on somewhere else,
they're called person.
They could be anything you want,
but that's usually how it lines up.
A resource lines up with a model, and
a model is created from a schema.
>> Scott Moss: So when we talk about
transitioning from schemas to the models,
basically, like I said, schemas
are gonna be instructions for the model.
So you can't create a model
without creating a schema first.
Schemas basically hold
the instructions for the models.
Things like validations,
the names of the fields, indexes, hooks.
Pretty much anything a database will
support, it goes through to the schema.
When you have to do a migration, you gotta
change the schema and stuff like that.
So the schema's everything.
So if we go back and
check out this user model here.
Actually, I'll just go through,
let me just delete this stuff and
we'll just make some new one here.
This thing's moving so fast.
Okay, all right.
So we'll just make a new schema here for
the user.
So for instance, if I wanted
this user to have a first name,
I can give it firstName, and
I can give it a type string.
And all I have to do is just pass
this object to mongoose.Schema,
which basically is creating a new schema,
so it's gonna return a new schema.
So I'm saying, hey, I want this
schema to have a first name and
its type is string, right?
I can also give it a last name, but
this time I want this to be required.
For some reason,
the last name has to be required.
I don't know,
that's just how our application works.
So in this case, instead of giving it
a type, I give it an object like this.
And then I could say its
type is also a string, but
it has a required validation on it,
like this.
All right, so this is making it required.
So as you can see I'm building
a schema that I'm then going to use
to create a model.
And then that model is gonna help us
inside of our controllers that we'll build
eventually that attach to the resources
that we expose over at REST.
So it all combines.
It all starts with a schema.
So you design your data with the schemas.
You convert those to models.
You have your controllers use the models
to query and perform CRUD on the models.
And then the resources activate
the controllers, and there you go.
You have a REST API.
>> Scott Moss: So as you see,
you can continue building on the schema.
There's a lot of different
things you can do here.
So I already have examples
of all the different
possibilities this schema
could do with Mongoose.
Like I said, there is another course
where we go into more detail about it.
But for what you're gonna be doing,
there's definitely gonna be enough
here for you to understand and
see what you're doing.
If you check out the user schema,
like I said, you'll see more here.
The list schema also has some
other stuff here as well, but
there's some really good examples.
I don't wanna go too deep or
into developing schemas and
stuff with Mongo or Mongoose.